# Assignment 7

**Due: Wednesday Nov 27th at 11:59 pm ET**

The goal of this assignment is to work with Dask-GeoPandas, Source Cooperative and analyze vector datasets. 

You should submit this assignment to your existing `geog213-assignments` or `geog313-assignments` GitHub repository under a new directory named `assignment-7`.

Create a Dockerfile with all required packages to complete the task, and following best practices covered in the class. Include a `README` in your `assignment-7` directory with all the steps a user needs to follow to reproduce your results. 

## Download Building Footprint Data

For this assignment you will be working with the [Google-Microsoft Open Buildings Dataset - Combined by VIDA](https://source.coop/repositories/vida/google-microsoft-open-buildings/description) which is available on Source Cooperative. Check out the [Read Me](https://source.coop/repositories/vida/google-microsoft-open-buildings/description) of the dataset to understand the dataset and familiarize yourself with its metadata. 

## Download Data

- Write a function that receives the ISO code for a country and downloads the corresponding geoparquet file or files for that country.
- Use this function to download the data for Haiti. 


## Load Geoparquet Data

- Write a function that loads the building footprints for the country of interest from the downloaded geoparquet file(s). The geoparquet file(s) in this dataset might be large depending on the country you are working with. So, ideally you would like to benefit from `dask_geopandas` functionality. 
- Use this function to load building footprints for Haiti. 


## Analyze the Data

In this section, you will analyze the data using the functionality provided by Dask:

- Plot the histogram of the area of all buildings provided by Microsoft as the source.
    - Note: this might have a very skewed distribution. Try passing arguments to your histogram function to create a more even histogram plot, and explain your approach. 
- Count the number of building footprints that `intersect` with each other.
- From the intersecting building footprints, calculate how many:
    - Google building footprints intersect another Google building footprint
    - Microsoft building footprints intersect another Microsoft building footprint
    - Google building footprints intersect a Microsoft building footprint