# Policies

## __Academic integrity__

All students are expected to adhere to Clark’s standards of academic integrity; this means that all work must be entirely your own and entirely unique to this course. Plagiarism and other forms of cheating will not be tolerated or excused. All students are required to complete assignments individually, and group delivery of assignments is not allowed. You are not allowed to share any part of your code/notebook with another classmate. However, you can consult/brainstorm with another classmate for an assignment while each individual needs to have their own unique submission and needs to report at the time of submission that they worked with each other on the assignment. 

For more information, please refer to the university’s policy on this issue, available on [Academic Policies page](https://catalog.clarku.edu/content.php?catoid=32&navoid=2735#academic-integrity) or in the student handbook. If you have any questions about proper citation or other related issues, please don’t hesitate to come see me.  

## Extension Policy

Each student is allowed to request a **one-time extension** to the deadline for submitting one of their assignment throughout the semester. The extension can be requested for up to one week from the deadline, and should be submitted at least 2 days prior to the deadline. You do not need to provide any reason for requesting this extension. To submit your request, send an email to your instructor and TA. 

## __Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI)__
This policy covers any generative AI tool, such as ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot, Elicit, DALL·E, etc. and applies to text and artwork/graphics/video/audio content. 
1. You are discouraged from using AI tools unless under direct instruction from the instructor to do so. Please contact your instructor if you are unsure or have questions before using AI for any assignment or project. 
    - You should note that the material generated by these programs may be inaccurate, incomplete, or otherwise problematic. Beware that use may also stifle your own independent thinking and creativity.
2. If AI is permitted to be used, you must indicate/cite what part of the assignment/project was written by AI and what was written by you. No more than 25% of an assignment/project should be created with AI if the instructor gives permission for its use. 

## __Student Accessibility__
Clark University is committed to providing students with documented disabilities equal access to all university programs and facilities. Students are encouraged to register with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) to explore and access accommodations that may support their success in their coursework. SAS is located on the second floor of the Shaich Family Alumni and Student Engagement Center (ASEC). Please contact SAS at accessibilityservices@clarku.edu with questions or to initiate the registration process. For additional information, please visit the SAS website at: https://www.clarku.edu/offices/student-accessibility-services/

## __FERPA__
The link to Clark’s policy regarding student privacy under the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act is available here: https://www.clarku.edu/offices/registrar/ferpa/

## __Title IX__
Clark University and its faculty are committed to creating a safe and open learning environment for all students. Clark University encourages all members of the community to seek support and report incidents of sexual harassment to the Title IX office (titleix@clarku.edu). If you or someone you know has experienced any sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, or stalking, help and support is available.

Please be aware that all Clark University faculty and teaching assistants are considered responsible employees, which means that if you tell me about a situation involving the aforementioned offenses, I must share that information with the Title IX Coordinator, Brittany Rende (titleix@clarku.edu). Although I have to make that notification, you will, for the most part, control how your case will be handled, including whether or not you wish to pursue a formal complaint. Our goal is to make sure you are aware of the range of options available to you and have access to the resources you need. 

If you wish to speak to a confidential resource who does not have this reporting responsibility, you can contact Clark’s Center for Counseling and Professional Growth (508-793-7678), Clark’s Health Center (508-793-7467), or confidential resource providers on campus: Prof. Stewart (als.confidential@clarku.edu), Prof. Palm Reed (kpr.confidential@clarku.edu), and Prof. Cordova (jvc.confidential@clarku.edu). 

## __Graduate Students__
Graduate students can contact Sara Simeone, Assistant Dean of Graduate Studies for Arts and Sciences, for any questions regarding academic affairs at GradSchool@clarku.edu. 

<p>&nbsp;</p>
